---
{"aliases":null,"locations":null,"tag":null,"date":null,"dg-home":false,"dg-publish":true,"dg-pass-frontmatter":true,"permalink":"/crimes-against-humanity/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


[[war crimes|Crimes against humanity]] are certain acts that are purposefully committed by a state, or on behalf of a state, as part of a widespread or systematic policy, typically directed against civilians, in times of war or [[anti-war|peace]]. The violent nature of such acts are considered a severe breaching of [[human rights|human rights]], hence the name. They differ from [[war crimes|war crimes]] because they are not isolated acts committed by individual soldiers but are acts committed in furtherance of a state or organizational policy. The first prosecution for [[war crimes|crimes against humanity]] took place at the Nuremberg trials. Initially being considered for legal use, widely in international law, following the Holocaust a global standard of [[human rights|human rights]] was articulated in the Universal Declaration of [[human rights|Human Rights]] (1948). Political groups or states that violate or incite violation of [[human rights|human rights]] norms, as found in the Declaration, are an expression of the political pathologies associated with [[war crimes|crimes against humanity]].  
[[war crimes|Crimes against humanity]] have since been prosecuted by other international courts (for example, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda and the International Criminal Court) as well as in domestic prosecutions. The law of [[war crimes|crimes against humanity]] has primarily developed through the evolution of customary international law. [[war crimes|Crimes against humanity]] are not codified in an international convention, although there is currently an international effort to establish such a treaty, led by the [[war crimes|Crimes Against Humanity]] Initiative.  
Unlike [[war crimes|war crimes]], [[war crimes|crimes against humanity]] can be committed during [[anti-war|peace]] or war. They are not isolated or sporadic events but are part either of a government policy (although the perpetrators need not identify themselves with this policy) or of a wide practice of [[war crimes|atrocities]] tolerated or condoned by a government or a de facto authority. War of aggression, [[war crimes|war crimes]], murder, massacres, dehumanization, [[war crimes|genocide]], [[war crimes|ethnic cleansing]], deportations, unethical human experimentation, extrajudicial punishments including summary executions, use of weapons of mass destruction, state terrorism or state sponsoring of terrorism, death squads, kidnappings and forced disappearances, use of child soldiers, unjust imprisonment, enslavement, [[war crimes|torture]], [[war crimes|rape]], political repression, racial discrimination, religious persecution and other [[human rights|human rights]] abuses may reach the threshold of [[war crimes|crimes against humanity]] if they are part of a widespread or systematic practice.

> [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crimes%20against%20humanity)
