---
{"aliases":"PMCs, Private Military Contractor, Private Military Contractors, Mercenaries, private military company, private military companies, privatize military, corporate warriors, corporate warrior, little green men, private army, private military, paramilitary organization, paramilitary organizations","locations":null,"tag":null,"date":null,"dg-home":false,"dg-publish":true,"dg-pass-frontmatter":true,"permalink":"/pmc/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---

> A private [[Russian Military Industry|military]] company (PMC) is a private company providing armed combat or security services for financial gain. PMCs refer to their personnel as "security contractors" or "**private [[Russian Military Industry|military]] contractor**s".
>
> The services and expertise offered by PMCs are typically similar to those of governmental security, [[Russian Military Industry|military]], or [[police|police]] forces but most often on a smaller scale. PMCs often provide services to train or supplement official armed forces in service of governments, but they can also be employed by private companies to provide bodyguards for key staff or protection of company premises, especially in hostile territories. However, contractors that use armed force in a warzone may be considered unlawful combatants in reference to a concept that is outlined in the Geneva Conventions and explicitly stated by the 2006 American Military Commissions Act.The services of private contractors are used around the world. P. W. Singer, the author of Corporate Warriors: The Rise of the Privatized [[Russian Military Industry|Military]] Industry, stated, "In geographic terms, it operates in over 50 countries. It’s operated in every single continent but Antarctica."  Singer noted that in the 1990s, there were 50 [[Russian Military Industry|military]] personnel for every contractor and that the ratio is now 10 to 1. He also pointed out that the contractors have a number of duties, depending on who hires them. In developing countries that have natural resources, such as oil refineries in Iraq, they are hired to guard the area. They are hired also to guard companies that contract services and reconstruction efforts such as General Electric.
>
> Apart from securing companies, they secure officials and government affiliates. Private [[Russian Military Industry|military]] companies carry out many missions and jobs. Some examples have included close protection for Afghan President Hamid Karzai and piloting reconnaissance [[aircraft|airplanes]] and [[aircraft|helicopters]] as a part of Plan Colombia. According to a 2003 study, the industry was then worth over $100 billion a year.According to a 2008 study by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, private contractors make up 29% of the workforce in the United States Intelligence Community and cost the equivalent of 49% of their personnel budgets.
>
> [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Private%20military%20company)