---
{"aliases":"Kharkiv, Kharkivska, Ха́рків, Kharkov, Харькoв","locations":null,"tag":null,"date":null,"dg-home":false,"dg-publish":true,"dg-pass-frontmatter":true,"location":[49.9923181,36.2310146],"permalink":"/maps/kharkiv-kharkivska-miska-hromada-kharkiv-raion-kharkiv-oblast-ukraine/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---

 **kharkiv** (Ukrainian: Ха́рків, IPA: [ˈxɑrkiu̯] (listen)), also known as Kharkov ([[Russia|Russian]]: Харькoв, IPA: [ˈxarʲkəf]), is the second-largest city and municipality in Ukraine. Located in the northeast of the country, it is the largest city of the historic Slobozhanshchyna region. Kharkiv is the administrative centre of [[Maps/Kharkiv Oblast, Ukraine|Kharkiv Oblast]] and of the surrounding Kharkiv Raion. The latest population is 1,433,886 (2021 est.). Kharkiv was founded in 1654 as Kharkiv fortress, and after these humble beginnings, it grew to be a major centre of industry, trade and Ukrainian [[civilizations|culture]] in the [[Russia|Russian]] Empire. At the beginning of the 20th century, the city was predominantly [[Russia|Russian]] in population, but as industrial expansion drew in further labor from the distressed countryside, and as the Soviet regime moderated previous restrictions on Ukrainian cultural expression, by the eve of World War II the greater part of the population was officially identified as Ukrainian. From December 1919 to January 1934, Kharkiv was the first capital of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic.
>
> Kharkiv is a major cultural, scientific, educational, [[transportation|transport]] and industrial centre of Ukraine, with numerous museums, theatres and libraries, including the Annunciation and Dormition Cathedrals, the Derzhprom building in Freedom Square, and the National University of Kharkiv. Industry plays a significant role in Kharkiv's economy, specialised primarily in machinery and electronics. There are hundreds of industrial facilities throughout the city, including the Morozov Design Bureau and the Malyshev Tank Factory (leaders in world tank production from the 1930s to the 1980s); Khartron (aerospace, nuclear power plants and automation electronics); Turboatom (turbines for hydro-, thermal- and nuclear-power plants); and Antonov (the multipurpose [[aircraft|aircraft]] manufacturing plant).
>
> In March and April 2014, security forces and counter-demonstrators defeated efforts by [[Russia|Russian]]-backed separatists to seize control of the city and regional administration. Kharkiv was a major target of the Northeastern Ukraine offensive in [[Russia|Russia]]'s invasion of Ukraine that began in February 2022. In May, [[Russia|Russian]] forces were pressed back toward the international border, but the city remains under intermittent Russian [[fire|fire]].
>
> [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kharkiv)