---
{"aliases":"Sakhalin, Сахали́н, Sakhalín, 樺太, Karafuto, 庫頁島, 库页岛, 庫頁島, Kùyèdǎo, ᠰᠠᡥᠠᠯᡳᠶᠠᠨ, Sahaliyan, Бугата на̄, Bugata nā, Yh-mif","locations":null,"tag":"camp, camp-location","date":null,"dg-home":false,"dg-publish":true,"dg-pass-frontmatter":true,"location":[50.15947595,143.02644118600944],"permalink":"/maps/sakhalin-far-eastern-federal-district-russia/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---


Ukraine's defence ministry says Russia is relocating Ukrainians from occupied areas en masse to distant parts of Russia, including Sakhalin in the far east.

Sakhalin (Russian: Сахали́н, tr. Sakhalín, IPA: [səxɐˈlʲin]; Japanese: 樺太 Karafuto; Chinese: 庫頁島; simplified Chinese: 库页岛; traditional Chinese: 庫頁島; pinyin: Kùyèdǎo; Manchu: ᠰᠠᡥᠠᠯᡳᠶᠠᠨ, Sahaliyan; Orok: Бугата на̄, Bugata nā; Nivkh: Yh-mif) is the largest island of Russia. It is north of the Japanese archipelago, and is administered as part of the Sakhalin Oblast. Sakhalin is situated in the Pacific Ocean, sandwiched between the Sea of Okhotsk to the east and the Sea of Japan to the west. It is located just off Khabarovsk Krai, and is north of Hokkaido in Japan. The island has a population of roughly 500,000, the majority of which are Russians. The indigenous peoples of the island are the Ainu, Oroks, and Nivkhs, who are now present in very small numbers.The Island's name is derived from the Manchu word Sahaliyan (ᠰᠠᡥᠠᠯᡳᠶᠠᠨ). Sakhalin was once part of China during the Qing dynasty, although Chinese control was relaxed at times. Sakhalin was later claimed by both Russia and Japan over the course of the 19th and 20th centuries. These disputes sometimes involved military conflicts and divisions of the island between the two powers. In 1875, Japan ceded its claims to Russia in exchange for the northern Kuril Islands. In 1905, following the Russo-Japanese War, the island was divided, with the south going to Japan. Russia has held all of the island since seizing the Japanese portion, as well as all the Kuril Islands, in the final days of World War II in 1945. Japan no longer claims any of Sakhalin, although it does still claim the southern Kuril Islands. Most Ainu on Sakhalin moved to Hokkaido, 43 kilometres (27 mi) to the south across the La Pérouse Strait, when the Japanese were displaced from the island in 1949.

> [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sakhalin)
